# PuppetConf 2017 Submission

## Bio
Tim (bastelfreak) Meusel works as a Systems Engineer at the Host Europe Group
in Cologne, Germany where he develops and maintains a big public cloud
platform. Tim is pushing and implementing open source solutions at work. He
founded the VirtAPI-Stack and besides that he is active as a Vox Pupuli
Maintainer and Archlinux community manager. Tim has been doing Sysops stuff
since 2009 and playing with Puppet since 2012. Recently he was elected to serve
on the Vox Pupuli Project Management Committee. He enjoys good BBQ and ice
hockey.

## Proposed Session Description
Vox Pupuli is a group of more than 100 puppet module/tooling/documentation
authors, all working together to ensure a continuing development process. We
elected our first Project Management Committee with one of its goals being to
include Vox Pupuli as an official project under the Software Conservancy. We do
not only provide a home for every orphaned puppet module, but also proper
tooling and automation for every interested developer. Some of the most
frequently used puppet modules (zabbix, collectd, archive, extlib) are managed
by us. Vox Pupuli is in the Top 10 of the most frequent Puppet Forge release
groups. Have a look at our funny journey of hunting broken gems and changing
upstream software! We invite everybody to participate. We will get into the
details of what Vox Pupuli is, how you can interact/contribute/benefit and also
we will share some funny and sad stories about all the bugs we discovered in
the Puppet and Ruby ecosystem and how we migrated 80 modules to Puppet 4!

## Additional Information
I spoke about it at the last config management camp 2017 in Gent. The online
version of the slides can be found
[here](https://bastelfreak.de/cfgcampgent/#1).

[Online Version](https://bastelfreak.de/puppetconf2017/#1)
[pdf](Vox_Pupuli_-_Empowering-the-Puppet-Community--_Tim_Meusel_fulltalk.pdf)
[Recording](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=fwUwgiiAM-w)
